docs([DST-876]): 📝Add Usage Guidelines with “When Not to Use a Card” Examples to the Card Documentation Page (#5387)
marigold-ui/marigold: docs/content/components/collection/card/index.mdx

---
title: Card
description: Component to support the structuring of information.
---

> import { CardAnatomy } from './card-anatomy';

Reviewer: 🔴 **Orphaned asset** — `docs/public/card/card-anatomy.jpg` is modified in this PR but no longer referenced anywhere (the new `<CardAnatomy />` SVG component replaces it). The `.jpg` file should be **deleted** rather than updated, otherwise it ships as dead bytes in `docs/public/`.

| `default` | Standard card with a raised shadow. This is the default variant. | General-purpose content grouping like articles, profiles, or summaries.                          |
| `admin`   | Card with admin-specific border and background tint.             | Grouping content visible only to admin users. [Learn more.](/patterns/layout/admin-master-mark)  |
| `master`  | Card with master-specific border and background tint.            | Grouping content visible only to master users. [Learn more.](/patterns/layout/admin-master-mark) |

## Usage guidelines

A Card is a strong visual container: it raises content above the page, draws a hard border around it, and tells the user "this belongs together as one unit." That weight is the point when content really is a self-contained item, but it becomes noise everywhere else. Reach for a Card when the elevation earns its keep, and choose a lighter layout when it doesn't.

### When to use a card

Use a `<Card>` when the content is:

- **Heterogeneous.** A mix of media, headings, body text, badges, or actions that belong together as one unit (e.g. an event preview, a product summary, a venue tile).

> - **Self-contained.** It can be lifted out of context and still make sense typically a summary that links to a detail view.

Reviewer: 🔴 **Broken sentence** — punctuation is missing between "sense" and "typically", which leaves the bullet ungrammatical:

> It can be lifted out of context and still make sense typically a summary that links to a detail view.

```suggestion
- **Self-contained.** It can be lifted out of context and still make sense, typically as a summary that links to a detail view.
```

Author: This part was removed recently , re-check please @sarahgm

      status or callout.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <DontDescription>
      Don't wrap a single short paragraph or one field in a card. The frame
      adds visual noise without grouping anything.
    </DontDescription>
  </Dont>
</GuidelineTiles>

#### Don't stack many cards on a page

Cards rely on contrast against the page to feel grouped. When you stack a long column of full-width cards, every row competes with every other row, the shadows pile up, and the page becomes visually noisy. Use a list separated by [`<Divider>`](../../content/divider) for similar rows, or a [`<Panel>`](../../layout/panel) when the list owns a named region of the page.

<CardVsListMockup />

<GuidelineTiles>
  <Do>
    <DoDescription>
      Use a list with [`<Divider>`](../../content/divider) between rows for
      long, homogeneous content. Wrap it in a
      [`<Panel>`](../../layout/panel) when the list owns a named region of the
      page.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <DontDescription>
      Don't stack a long column of full-width cards. The repeated shadows and
      borders fragment the page and harm scannability.
    </DontDescription>
  </Dont>
</GuidelineTiles>

> #### Don't nest cards inside cards

Reviewer: ⚠️ **Missing mockup for consistency** — the three previous "Don't" sections (`Don't wrap tabular data`, `Don't wrap simple content`, `Don't stack many cards`) all have a `Card-vs-X` SVG mockup before the GuidelineTiles. This section jumps straight to the tiles, which makes the page feel inconsistent. Consider adding a `CardVsNestedMockup` to `card-usage-guidelines.tsx` showing a card with nested cards on the right vs. the same content restructured with `<Stack>` + `<Divider>` on the left.

```tsx
<Card>
  <Card.Header>
    <Headline level={3}>Event Title</Headline>
    <Badge variant="info">New</Badge>
  </Card.Header>
  <Card.Body>Details about the event.</Card.Body>
</Card>
```

### Card.Body

Use `Card.Body` for the main content area of the card, descriptive text, form elements, or any primary content.

<GuidelineTiles>
  <Do>
    <DoDescription>
      Use `Card.Preview` for images so they appear full-bleed at the top of the
      card.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <DontDescription>
      Don't nest images inside `Card.Body` when they're meant to be the card's
      main visual.
    </DontDescription>
  </Dont>
</GuidelineTiles>

### Card.Footer

Use `Card.Footer` for actions or metadata displayed at the bottom of the card, such as buttons or secondary text.

```tsx
<Card>
  <Card.Body>Card content</Card.Body>
  <Card.Footer>
    <Button>Primary Action</Button>
  </Card.Footer>
</Card>
```

<GuidelineTiles>
  <Do>
    <DoDescription>
      Combine only the sub-components you need, not every slot must be used.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
</GuidelineTiles>

The following example shows a typical card composition using all available slots.

> <ComponentDemo name="card-elevation" />

Reviewer: ⚠️ **Duplicate content** — `<ComponentDemo name="card-elevation" />` already appears on line 175 (under `### Card.Preview`), and the GuidelineTiles below this duplicate the `#### Don't nest cards inside cards` guidance from line 126.

Suggest either: (a) remove this second occurrence and the trailing GuidelineTiles, or (b) introduce a separate `card-composition` demo here so the two demos play different roles ("showing the Preview slot" vs "showing all slots together").

<GuidelineTiles>
  <Do>
    <DoDescription>
      Use Card on top of the default surface layer so the raised shadow is
      visible.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <DontDescription>
      Don't use card in cards or on same-elevation layers.
    </DontDescription>
  </Dont>
</GuidelineTiles>

## Props

<StorybookHintMessage component={'Card'} />

### Card

<AutoTypeTable path="Card" name="CardProps" />

### Card.Preview

<AutoTypeTable path="Card/CardPreview" name="CardPreviewProps" />

> ### Card.Title

Reviewer: 🔴 **Heading typo** — the component is `Card.Header` (matches the path on the next line and the rest of the page). `Card.Title` doesn't exist.

```suggestion
### Card.Header
```

---
title: Card
description: Represents one item in a collection.
---

import { CardAnatomy } from './card-anatomy';
import {
  DoListMockup,
  DoTableMockup,
  DoTextMockup,

>   DontListMockup,

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ **Missing em-dashes around the appositive — happens in three places.**

The text reads "in a collection an event preview, a venue tile, a product summary that repeats…" but should be "in a collection — an event preview, a venue tile, a product summary — that repeats…".

Same pattern in two more places:

1. In the `## Usage` section: `…repeats in a grid or list events, products, venues, team members and each entry…` → `…list — events, products, venues, team members — and each entry…`
2. In `### With or without media`: `…visual identity an event poster, a venue photo, a product hero.` → `…visual identity — an event poster, a venue photo, a product hero.`

Looks like em-dashes were stripped during paste/copy.

```suggestion
A `<Card>` represents one item in a collection — an event preview, a venue tile, a product summary — that repeats next to similar siblings in a grid or list. Each card groups related content (image, title, body, actions) into a single, self-contained unit and sets it apart from the page with a raised shadow.
```

---
title: Card
description: Represents one item in a collection.
---

import { CardAnatomy } from './card-anatomy';
import { DoNestedMockup, DontNestedMockup } from './card-usage-guidelines';

> A `<Card>` represents one item in a collection an event preview, a venue tile, a product summary that repeats next to similar siblings in a grid or list. Each card groups related content (image, title, body, actions) into a single, self-contained unit and sets it apart from the page with a raised shadow.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Run-on sentence.** Reads as a single 35-word clause without a connector. Per project preference, avoid em dashes — use a comma + "such as" / "like".

Also minor: "sets it apart from the page with a raised shadow" overgeneralizes; the `admin`/`master` variants below use tinted borders, not shadows.

```suggestion
A `<Card>` represents one item in a collection, such as an event preview, a venue tile, or a product summary, that repeats next to similar siblings in a grid or list. Each card groups related content (image, title, body, actions) into a single, self-contained unit and sets it apart from the page through elevation or tinting.
```

<AppearanceTable component={'Card'} />

> The card component supports variants for general content grouping as well as access-level marking.

Reviewer: 💡 Minor inconsistency — "The card component" here is lowercase, but earlier on L13 you have "The `<Card>` component". The rest of the docs tends to use lowercase "card" in prose, so this line is correct; just flagging that the new opening paragraph on L9 uses "Card" capitalized in a similar context. Pick one and apply consistently.

## Usage

> A card represents one item in a set. Reach for it when the same type of item repeats in a grid or list events, products, venues, team members and each entry links to its own detail view. Repetition is the core case if the element doesn't repeat, a card is probably the wrong tool. If the items need sorting, filtering, or bulk actions, [`<Table>`](../table) is a better fit. For a named, non-repeating page region like "Billing" or "Team members", use [`<Panel>`](../../layout/panel) instead.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Run-on + comma splice.** Two issues: missing connector before the example list, and "Repetition is the core case if the element doesn't repeat, a card is probably the wrong tool" is a comma splice.

```suggestion
A card represents one item in a set. Reach for it when the same type of item repeats in a grid or list (events, products, venues, team members) and each entry links to its own detail view. Repetition is the core case — if the element doesn't repeat, a card is probably the wrong tool. If the items need sorting, filtering, or bulk actions, [`<Table>`](../table) is a better fit. For a named, non-repeating page region like "Billing" or "Team members", use [`<Panel>`](../../layout/panel) instead.
```

(Note: I used an em dash above for the "Repetition is the core case" clause. If you'd rather keep zero em dashes per project preference, swap that for a period or a colon.)

### Card grids

The canonical card layout is a responsive grid of items, each with its own visual identity. Use [`<Tiles>`](../../layout/tiles) for a grid that reflows automatically, [`<Stack>`](../../layout/stack) for a vertical list, or [`<Inline>`](../../layout/inline) for a horizontal row.

<ComponentDemo name="card-grid" background="page" />

> The same shape works for any repeating content team directories with avatars, article previews with author metadata, or category pickers with no media at all. The identity-per-card pattern stays the same only the contents of each slot change.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Two run-ons in one paragraph.** Both "any repeating content team directories…" and "the pattern stays the same only the contents…" need punctuation.

```suggestion
The same shape works for any repeating content, like team directories with avatars, article previews with author metadata, or category pickers with no media at all. The identity-per-card pattern stays the same; only the contents of each slot change.
```

### Media

`Card.Media` is optional. Whether to include an image depends on whether the visual carries information.

> Use an image preview when each item has its own visual identity an event poster, a venue photo, a product hero. The image is part of how users recognize and choose between cards in a grid.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Run-on.** Missing connector before the example list.

```suggestion
Use an image preview when each item has its own visual identity, like an event poster, a venue photo, or a product hero. The image is part of how users recognize and choose between cards in a grid.
```

<ComponentDemo name="card-elevation" background="page" />

<GuidelineTiles>
  <Do>
    <DoDescription>
      Put images in `Card.Media` so they sit full-bleed at the top of the card.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <DontDescription>
      Don't nest the card's main visual inside `Card.Body`. The padding cuts the
      image off from the card's edges and the framing falls apart.
    </DontDescription>
  </Dont>
</GuidelineTiles>

> Drop `Card.Media` when the content is text-driven a plan summary, a status block, or a quick stat with actions. A title and short body carry the meaning, and a generic stock image only adds noise without helping users decide.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Run-on.** Missing connector before the example list.

```suggestion
Drop `Card.Media` when the content is text-driven, like a plan summary, a status block, or a quick stat with actions. A title and short body carry the meaning, and a generic stock image only adds noise without helping users decide.
```

<ComponentDemo name="card-minimal" background="page" />

### Footer actions

Put actions in `Card.Footer` when users should be able to act on the item directly from the grid, without opening a detail page.

Use small buttons (`<Button size="small" />`). Cards sit in tight grid cells, and small buttons match the scale of the surrounding content. Reserve default-size buttons for page-level actions outside of cards.

### Nested cards

> Cards already sit on a raised surface. Nesting a card inside another card creates double elevation that no longer reads as depth, it's just a frame inside a frame. Restructure the inner content with a layout primitive like [`<Stack>`](../../layout/stack), a [`<Divider>`](../../content/divider), or split the content into sibling sections.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Comma splice.** "creates double elevation that no longer reads as depth, it's just a frame inside a frame" joins two independent clauses with a comma.

```suggestion
Cards already sit on a raised surface. Nesting a card inside another card creates double elevation that no longer reads as depth; it's just a frame inside a frame. Restructure the inner content with a layout primitive like [`<Stack>`](../../layout/stack), a [`<Divider>`](../../content/divider), or split the content into sibling sections.
```

Author: one of the prev comments that are resolved was pointing to that ";" is AI soap  @sarahgm
